#summary Installation guide for OpenVGR in Ubuntu 12.04 (precise)
#labels Phase-Deploy

(draft)

= Introduction =

OpenVGR is a program suite for object detection by stereo vision.
The object detection is performed by comparing a model and 3-D lines or curves reconstructed by stereo vision.
Since major programs are built as RT components (function units running on [http://www.openrtm.org OpenRTM]), user can easily use our programs with/without connecting another components.

OpenVGR consists of the followings:
 * RT components (for OpenRTM-1.0)
  * !MultiCamera
   * takes images simultaneously using IIDC 1.31 compliant camera (e.g. Point Grey Flea2), and outputs the data as Img::TimedMultiCameraImage.
  * !MultiDisp
   * receives Img::TimedMultiCameraImage, shows it using OpenCV's function (cv::imshow()).
  * Measure3D
   * receives Img::TimedMultiCameraImage, and outputs a point cloud and stereo images as TimedStereo3D.
  * Recognition
   * receives TimedStereo3D, and outputs the result of object detection as 4x4 coordinate transform matrices and additional informations.
  * !RecognitionResultViewer
   * shows the top scored result with green contours by projecting a model onto camera images.
 * command line tools
  * VGRModeler
   * produces a simple box or cylinder model for the recognition.
  * multicalib
   * genconf generates a template configuration file for cameras. 
   * ichimatsu generates a data file for the multicalib by detecting chessboard pattern using the OpenCV's function (cv::findChessboardCorners()).
   * multicalib computes the calibration data of multi-cameras from the data file. Camera parameters in the calibration data are compatible to OpenCV's camera model.


= Prerequisites =

== OS ==
 * [http://www.ubuntu.com/ Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (x86)]

== Libraries ==
 * [http://www.openrtm.org/ OpenRTM-aist-1.1.0] (required by RT components)
 * [http://opencv.willowgarage.com/wiki/ OpenCV-2.3.1] (required by the all programs)
 * [http://damien.douxchamps.net/ieee1394/libdc1394/ libdc1394-22] (required by capture related programs)

== Hardware ==
 * two or three IEEE 1394b cameras. (some sample images are included for testing)


= Installing dependencies =
We use apt-get here, you can use your favorite package manager (e.g. synaptic), of course.

== OpenRTM-aist-1.1.0 , rtshell 3.0 ==
Please follow the instructions at [http://openrtm.org official page].

== OpenCV-2.3.1 ==
for Ubuntu 12.04 LTS:
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install lib{cv,cvaux,highgui}-dev libopencv-dev
}}}

== libdc1394-22 ==
for Ubuntu 12.04 LTS:
{{{
$ sudo apt-get install libdc1394-22-dev
}}}


= Downloading package ==
from subversion:
{{{
$ svn co http://openvgr.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ somewhere
}}}

tarball: *current version (<=0.9.1) does not support 12.04, please get the latest version from the svn.*<br>
Go to [http://code.google.com/p/openvgr/downloads/list download page] and choose one.
Then unpack the archive:
{{{
$ tar zxvf OpenVGR-X.Y.Z.tgz
}}}

= Building programs =
{{{
$ cd ${OPENVGR_HOME}
$ make
}}}
where ${OPENVGR_HOME} is the top directory of the package.

From OpenRTM-1.1, the default location of include files has changed from `/usr/include/rtm...` to `/usr/include/`*`openrtm-1.1/`*`rtm...`.
You may need to correct include paths in all the Makefiles in the source tree.
Or, you can try the alternative; cmake. ;-)

After the compilation finishes, the following commands create soft links in the build directory.
{{{
$ cd ${OPENVGR_HOME}/build; make
}}}


= Testing =
Go to ${OPENVGR_HOME}/example/script, then execute ./stilltest.sh.
{{{
$ cd ${OPENVGR_HOME}/example/script
$ ./stilltest.sh
}}}
This script launches RT components, connects each other, and inputs test images to the component.
After a while, you will get a recognition result for the input test image.